---
title: 3D Robots
---

There are some units, at Curtin University, where you have to do a project. This is not an unsual prospect, lecturers have been using students for such things all the time at pretty much any University. My team is no different, we have been tasked, essentially, to develop from scratch the Open Academic Robot Kit. Now, I've sounded a little cynical, and I probably am a little, but it's actually a pretty neat project. To be sour about it, makes you sound like the kind of person who would be sour against more money being given to hospitals.

The basic idea is allow people to create robots, robots that they can 3D print, and construct from a few parts. The type of people that are targeted for this, are people who wouldn't normally have the skills necessary in making these robots. Physical designs can be downloaded, modified, and constructed into whatever sort of robot that people would want to make. But the primary goal would be to allow, say, high school students to put these together and experiment. You know, get kids interested in science! I'm sounding a little cynical again, I'm not, I'm just trying my own poor brand of humour.

Physical designs are the easy part, our particular trick, is to come up with the software they can use for these robots. This is a big problem, not the technical issues, those are easy to tackle, no, the problem here is the abstraction. Computers are easy, they follow logical rules, and (if you have the right access to the source code, or other way of seeing what is going on, something you can eventually get right). But abstractions, they involve humans, human brains which are all different, and think about things in different ways. This is also a problem domain that none of our team have experience with, so we don't even know the right approach for an abstraction that will make sense.

So, future blog posts will probably be documenting my descent into madness, fair warning.
